Over the last few decades, the CCTV surveillance system has gained popularity. Governments and various organizations are using these systems to keep an check on public safety and security. However, the number of crimes have increased as the population increased, making it more challenging to monitor criminal activities. Authorities must rely on digital records, like CCTV footage, to find offenders and gather evidence in order to combat crime efficiently. While CCTV footage can be useful for identifying specifics of a crime and suspects, this information is only useful after the event. Often aiding victims depends on taking quick action. As the usage of CCTV continues to grow, it is important to understand that there is no separate entity exists to monitor the activities on the large. Besides, it is a waste of human resources and also is highly fallible.  Thus, implementing AI into these CCTV systems can help identify crimes forthwith. Our proposed AI system can use real-time CCTV feeds to automatically identify occurrences  and send notifications to the closest police station. The solution also keeps a database that details the incident's or crime's type, as well as its time, place, and alert level (i.e., low, medium, high-risk alert). The proposed AI system can also be utilized to analyse the regions that are at higher risk of criminal activities. This system is built to analyze CCTV footage in real-time using  computer vision algorithms and deep learning techniques such as Convolution Neural Network(CNN) , Long Short Term Memory(LSTM) etc...  to spot probable criminal activity based on predefined patterns and anomalies. A  Web-based interface can be used to send the generated alerts to the closest police station. This technology can aid law enforcement organizations in providing prompt, efficient responses to situations while also averting additional criminal activity. In addition, the system has the ability to provide reports on the detected occurrences and crimes that may be used for additional research and analysis. Overall, advanced CCTV analysis has the ability to significantly increase public safety and security by helping law enforcement officials to respond quickly and efficiently to all possible threats and illegal actions.
